## Pro Tips

### Structuring Your Site

Alternator has no directory structure requirements so you can
organize `<source>` however you like.

The structure of `<source>` will be copied to `<target>`.

The structure of `<target>` becomes your URLs when published.

### Keeping `<target>` Clean

When you delete a file from `<source>`, it also gets deleted from `<target>`.
There’s no need to manage source files in `<target>`.

### Ignoring Dotfiles

Use a `.` at the beginning of a file or directory name to tell Alternator to
ignore it, both in `<source>` and `<target>`.

Dotfiles in `<source>` won’t be moved to `<target>`.

Dotfiles in `<target>` won’t be cleaned up and will be published.

While dotfiles such as `.env`, `.htaccess`, and `.git/`, are used for
configuration, you can also use this feature to prevent `<source>` _layouts_ and
_includes_ from being moved to `<target>` and prevent `<target>` assets from
being cleaned up.

### Using Markdown

Markdown files (`.md`) are automatically converted to HTML and copied
to `<target>` as `.html` files.

### Multiple _Include_ Arguments

`@include` statements can have multiple arguments, formatted as `@key: value`
and separated by spaces:

`// @include sample.js @foo: true @bar: false`

### Fallback _Variable_ Values

Define fallback values for variables with the `??` operator:

`<!-- @foo ?? bar -->`

### _Layout_ Your _Includes_

Included files can have their own layouts, either defined in their metadata or
as an argument passed with the `@include` statement:

`<!-- @include .posts/post.md @layout: .postLayout.html -->`

You can even bypass an included file’s layout with `@layout: false`.

### Managing Static Assets

Files that can’t be rendered, such as images, are considered static assets and
are copied as-is from `<source>` to `<target>`.

Put static assets directly in `<target>` under a `.` directory like `.assets/`
or `.images/` to avoid excess copies.

### Clean URLs

The localhost server supports clean urls.

For example, `<target>/foo.html` is available at `localhost:8080/foo` so you
don’t have to clutter your project with extra directories and index files.

_Not all production servers support this._

### Displaying a _404 Not Found_ Error Page

If the localhost server cannot find a requested file, it will return the
_404 Not Found_ HTTP response status code.

If `<target>/404.html` exists, it will be returned for any not found HTML
requests.

No response body will be returned for non-HTML requests.

_Not all production servers support this._

### Publishing Your Site

Alternator sites can be published to any host that serves static files.

This site is hosted on GitHub Pages using _/docs_ as the `<target>`.

Check your web host’s documentation for specifics.
